# An-Artificial-Intelligence-Chess-Program
The goal of the project is to design and implement an artificial intelligence-based chess playing program. This is a widely famous problem that has been in the works for a very long time and various renditions of the problem are available in the form of chess engines and chess games easily available to download on the Internet. Since the advent of computers, people always viewed chess playing as a task suited for a computer. The incident that made chess engines very famous happened way back in 1997 where the world champion at that time Garry Kasparov played a chess engine Deep Blue. During one of the game’s, he’s fidgeting in between turns and shaking his head in disbelief as he waits for his opponent to put the final touches on an inevitable victory. Finally, Kasparov makes his move, stands up and races away from the board. He raises his arms, astounded that he was beaten by a machine. His opponent was the IBM supercomputer Deep Blue, a machine that was capable of imagining an average of 200,000,000 positions per second. So when Kasparov, one of the greatest chess players of all time, lost to a computer in front of a global audience, people began to wonder whether it was just a matter of time before machines surpassed humans in other aspects of life. “From the beginning of the computer era, it was a belief that chess could serve as the ultimate test for machine intelligence,” Kasparov says. “And the game of chess has always been seen as the nexus for human intelligence. So, when a machine faced a human in chess and won this battle ... it could definitely be a revolutionary moment.”
